listen now i'm a big fan of morehead and
benson and all of their previous
projects
they're those kind of filmmakers who do
it all from the writing directing acting
editing vfx
crafty one of the big pleasures of
having a larger budget
is not having to do everything yourself
and one major challenge of having a
large budget is you're not allowed to do
everything yourself
and this time around they got to tangle
with the stars the endless
specifically is what made it happen just
because an
agent happened to see the last screening
of the endless in a theater
because they liked the poster um and
that agent is jamie dornan's agent
so a reminder never skimp on the poster
now personally i i do prefer the
previous projects to this one i would
highly recommend the endless just like
jamie's agent did
but for a duo whose working relationship
has gotten them this far i do respect
their time travel story being about how
time travels through people
and how friendship is tested through it
the present is a miracle bro
now go watch it on netflix because we're
about to get into full spoilers
let me explain
[Music]
so the story follows two paramedics in
new orleans who've been longtime friends
there's jamie dornan who plays dennis he
had a kid really young with his high
school sweetheart and just had another
18 years later
but finds himself taking them all for
granted pretty much creating his own
hell because he doesn't feel good enough
anthony mackie plays steve who's dealt
with trauma in his past through the
turmoils of the city
and it spirals down into a routine of
drinking pills and one night stands
until he realizes he has cancer and then
of course there's tom who sucks at
driving
[ __ ] you get back in the ambulance even
with the bigger budget they still shot
at themselves and you can see a
difference between the way they shoot
both characters to showcase their state
of mind the movie itself is also full of
these beautiful long shots with the
first introducing them to a group
who died using a drug known as
synchronic which is what brianna
dennis's daughter
ends up using later on when she goes
missing and because steve is at his ends
he decides to think outside the wire
and hunts down the drug himself he buys
all the synchronic at his local shop and
is ready to destroy it before the
chemist who made it appears
in his closet trap like r kelly ready to
just vomit exposition
which honestly is the most i've ever
seen in their movies
i make synthetic drugs create new drugs
very similar to illegal drugs but the
molecules just different enough to be
legal
i know what designer drugs are
and even though brianna's 18 i love my
daughter to death she's a [ __ ] awful
babysitter
okay now the one thing that they do
litter throughout the movie is this idea
of the third eye
the chemist even explains that the
chronic affects the pineal gland making
younger people more susceptible to its
side effects because
theirs isn't fully formed at their age
and due to steve's tumor on his pineal
gland
where the third eye would be he's able
to feel the effects maybe your unique
endocrine gland makes you more
enlightened
their concept of time is also a lot like
dr manhattan the idea of it being
like a frozen river or a vinyl where all
things exist simultaneously
whatever happened happened the drugs
themselves are based on actual head
shops that sell these altered drugs
that are like barely legal yet
ironically can cause more harm
in the movie the doctor who's from ohio
who actually made synchronic swallow
cyanide so it alludes to the fact that
the drug is supposed to be completely
gone
but i know the directors talked about a
whole backstory on the creation of it
that could be a whole series and i would
like to see it because the movie needed
more of that
steve first time jump happens by
accident and it takes him back to
conquistador times which
is what makes new orleans such an
interesting place to tell a story like
this
because of the colonialism of that land
by the french the spanish
even see the first man who was there
before the swamp melted and the pats was
even shot in more of a shaky cam style
to show how much of a
pain in the ass it was we've been riding
for a month my love
now basically the rules that they
establish is that a jump only lasts for
seven minutes
the travel period varies based on the
location where you take the pill
and that's where you have to be in order
to come back that's why that dude in the
beginning
falls from the sky since he was in an
elevator and even steve's costume
changes with the jumps
since it was purposefully constructed to
have this oozing design that parallels
his cancer
warping more and more as he goes on and
while i did question
whether the earth moving would mean that
he just transports
like into the void or touching a couch
should result in
you know him traveling with it at a
certain point i just figured he was
going to find a love
interest back in time and decided to
just stay there then i remember that
that's the other steve
not this one the past [ __ ] sucks man
in fact the inception for the movie came
from that idea of how the past varies
from person to person
and that to many they may not want to
revisit it which is what steve relays in
the movie
it [ __ ] back to the future pass was here
trying to make it look all cozy and [ __ ]
i look i
as much as i want to go back to the 50s
i'd probably have to bring a switchblade
it was it was humbling and daunting
infuriating
but powerful because i see what my
great-grandparents and
great-great-great-grandparents
had to go through for me to be able to
sit here today and have this interview
now as steve tests out the different
ways in which synchronic works he
decides at one point to bring his
dog who fun fact is actually named
hollywood in real life but they do a
nice little nod by calling him hawkings
in the movie
but then they just disrespect his good
boy by not asking him to stay he decides
to bring the dog to test an experiment
and ends up losing him in the past
personally
i would have tested it on a past spot
that you already knew where it was going
to take you to
not a new one where you ended up
visiting the clan
i can explain and you know what do you
remember that guinness record
about hawking he actually holds the
guinness record
for the world's oldest dog he lived to
be like 50 years old
yeah oh my god so hawking had a
wonderful wonderful life
ah okay then 100 he's the one who pawned
in always on the rock
like the previous movies they do a lot
of match cuts that actually really work
for this one because it establishes how
steve feels
he's become so disconnected with time
and is just going through the motions
that it actually takes the separation
from his present to realize all the
things around him
in fact there's a couple of connections
to the previous movies besides the
intertwining themes
like these props that look like the ones
that were used in the endless and
there's that mystical red flower that
has appeared in
practically all of their films dmt-like
drug that we synthesized from our red
flower that only grows in a very
isolated
region of the the california desert i
did wish that they explored a lot more
of the sci-fi aspects of it but
i also know that their main concept
focused on the idea of human connection
you know the idea of reminiscing in the
presence and realizing that just
having a beer with your buds is just as
important as anything else you can do
as kurt vonnegut of the time travel epic
slaughterhouse five wrote a purpose of
human life no matter who is controlling
it
is to love whoever is around to be loved
and that idea
of duos getting their relationships
tested has been a true line of their
movies
you know you get until earth dies i get
one more day with you so after all of
steve's experiments he realizes that
brianna didn't time jump from the roof
where all her friends were at but the
rock overlooking the river that was
pitches her hangout spot throughout
it's even the place that has always
which is the final words that her dad
said to her
so steve's end game takes him back to a
civil war where he is able to save her
but the big question becomes
is he able to save himself it doesn't
make sense for him to be gone you know
steve had already embraced that he was
going to die and if he would have stayed
over there
i mean obviously he's going to be a
goner but in my opinion
if you're looking at it from a sci-fi
approach and taking the rules that were
already established
then i feel like that idea of him
holding on to jaime
should bring him back from the past
apparently
the present can anchor you
[Music]
instead of it being an item as
previously shown it's dennis who's his
constant
it's his lifelong friend who's truly his
anchor and after all they've gone
through
is able to bring him back to his present
so while it may seem like the movie ends
with no resolution
it just proves that no matter what came
their way their friendship
is truly endless thank you guys for
watching this video and i'm curious to
know your thoughts down below in the
comment section who do you think wrote
the thing on the rock
i pretty much don't think that there's
an answer i mean especially at the end
when he jumps back and you see it i was
for sure it was going to be the daughter
because of the you know the final words
that dad said to her it's the hangout
spot all that but
that's probably like the one question i
have no idea how it ends but i'm almost
positive that
you know he does come back at the end
because the whole themes in the movie
lead to that overall i am curious to see
what these guys do next
i really like how they make a lot of
behind the scenes to their stuff so if
you haven't seen the previous things
they do a great job at pushing just the
filmmaking side of it and showing you an
honest
you know just making of and behind the
scenes to the works that they've done
so it's gonna be really interesting to
see them on a marvel project because i
know that they're doing moon night next
what i really want to see though is them
do a series you know tackle something
that's completely original to them
all completely directed by them with a
crazy budget just to see how creative
they can get with it
if i hadn't met justin i probably would
be directing jurassic world three
and and now i'm just doing this you know
so slumming it with me yeah other than
that let me know your thoughts on this
movie what else you want to see in lme
on
stay out of head shops and until next
time don't forget to comment like and
subscribe and jamie dornan will leave
you a voicemail